---
layout: post
title: Brett
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

"Get it done," he'd snarl. He scared the shit out of new kids in the control room. We used to fuck with them. Tell them Brett got it in prison. College kids working in a small market TV station would believe anything. Sometimes the dumbest of them believed people lived in the satellites. But nobody would question what we said about Brett. They'd just nod and let Brett be intimidating.

He intimidated me at first, too. That scar. The case of TAB in the break room fridge. Who in the Hell drinks TAB? Psychos who've been to prison, that's who. His body hung on a wiry frame. His brow always furrowed. His eyes could pierce through the dark control rooms. His voice. That raspy voice. That scar.

"Get it done."

He showed me how to do everything in the first segment and then he hovered over me as I fucked everything up in the second. This was live TV. He stood over me and let me fuck up, even as the director plead with him to step in and fix it. Everybody will fuck up in live TV. That was his first lesson.

But that lesson cascaded into a second: don't expect help. Cascaded into a third: move foward. And a fourth: to learn success, you must fail.

To me it was the worst job I'd ever done. To him it was just one of the 365 10 p.m. newscasts that year. The fifth lesson: be excellent, but nobody is perfect. 

The next morning I found a two-page-long list of things I'd done wrong in my locker. He took the time to review my failure. I should have kept my hands on the board. I have should thought ahead a few steps. I should have listen to the director. I should have calmed down when things got bad and just fixed the problem and moved on.

I made mistakes after that day. Everybody did at some point. But I got better at recognizing why I made mistakes. This is important. This was the sixth lesson. 

Over the few short years I worked with Brett, I learned he wasn't so scary. Quite the opposite. He thought it was funny people thought he was intimidating, but he let people think what they wanted to think. After awhile those eyes didn't pierce anymore. He was working on an idea for a children's book. He talked about it all the time. His eyes would widen and you could just see into him.

He exploded with joy at perfection, when done was gotten without incident. Fist would pump. He'd whoop and holler. He'd rub his hands together. Grin ear to ear.

When I was told Brett had died, I was at work. New job. Hadn't been at the station in years. Hadn't spoken to Brett in since I left the station. Still, it was the kind of news that hit me too hard, too fast. I left the office for the afternoon. Made up some excuse. Spent some time walking. Walking and bawling.

It's hard to describe how one person could influence my professional career, in a field I'm no longer working in, no less. But that was Brett. I think about him a lot.

I wish I knew him better, but I didn't. The path to perfection is littered with imperfection. Sometimes you just have to pay your respects.

* Everybody fucks up.
* Don't expect help.
* Move forward.
* To learn success, you must fail.
* Be excellent, but nobody is perfect.

