---
layout: post
title: Reasonable Defaults for Programmers
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

It's well known that all programmers hate all other programmer's code.
Given sufficient time, all programmers also eventually begin to hate
their own code. This is life. 

There's a particular attitude among haters of other people's code.
A programmer believes his or her standard of writing code is
best. They use unit tests or some new design pattern or whatever makes
them feel special or better than lesser programmers. They actively pick
out the flaws of the code written by others. To them, the world should
be defaulted to their standards, and when they find it is not, they
become assholes to the world. 

I have spent some time wondering what causes this unreasonable default
behavior. Why, instead of working to improve ones self and ones team and
ones community, is it so often easier to merely point to flaws?

I'm not the first to notice this phenomena by any means. The Buddha's
first discourse describes it in the first two Noble Truths:

The first Noble Truth of dukkha: There is a basic unsatisfactoriness
pervading all existence, in all forms of life. Some Westerners call this
"suffering" but it covers more surface area than that. All things are
constantly in motion. Constantly changing. Constantly causing friction.
Before we acknowledge the second truth. 

The second Noble Truth is the origin of dukkha: We are conditioned by
ignorance to seek out objects and experience that cause pleasure, to
dominate and control and manipulate our world and to avoid painful
situations. The objects of our attachment are transient things.
Eventually they will lose their luster and suffering will follow. We
delude ourselves into thinking we are singular beings, islands removed
from the rest of humanity, the rest of life. This delusion ignores the
truth that we are all merely part of a continuing universe.

But there is a way out of the woods, I would think. And it comes through
dispassion. Some have said it's as simple as "give it five minutes."

The third Noble Truth is the truth that the cessation of dukkha is
ultimately attainable. We can cease suffering. The Buddhists call this
nirodha, which is the unmaking of craving and attachment. We can attain
nirvana through dispassion.

The fourth Noble Truth is the cessation of dukkha. Through a gradual
path of self-improvement, described as the Eightfold Path, we can mind
the middle path between self-indulgence and self-mortification.
