---
layout: post
title: On Long Form Writing
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

A few years ago, I used to blog about technology and journalism. I did it fairly regularly and, to my surprise, gained a sizeable readership.

It started with me working out some problems in my head. Problems like, why don't newsrooms understand this newfangled Internet thing? What are the fundamentals of the newspaper business (and the newspaper culture) that keep it from moving head first into new technology?

I didn't really write in ways that people would considering _blogging_. I didn't even consider my blog a blog in the traditional sense of the word, either. Itwas a place where I wrote essays. Sometimes very, very long essays.

I stopped writing that blog because one day, as I was paying my hosting bill, I realized that I didn't really have much to say on the matter anymore, so I shut down the site. The things I was writing about had changed dramatically, and there were so many people in the space parroting each other, I just figured I didn't need to go on and on about the thing.

bq. If we read of one man robbed, or murdered, or killed by accident, or one house burned, or one vessel wrecked, or one steamboat blown up, or one cow run over on the Western railroad, or one mad dog killed, or one lot of grasshoppers in the winter — we need never read of another. One is enough. If you are acquainted with the principle, what do you care for a myriad of instances and applications?
bq. Henry David Thoreau, *Walden*

Since then, I've mostly kept my public thoughts to my twitter account. Those thoughts are mostly ultra-short-form rants about things I obsess over: mushrooms, baseball, maths.

I've noticed something about my feelings toward twitter lately, and really, blogging in general, that swings me back to the curmudgeony stereotype I used to rail against with the curmudgeony types in newsrooms. Where is the substance?

Now, unlike your typical curmudgeon, I'm not going to conflate the technology of blogging with trends in practice, but every time I see a tweet to a post like "5 things every small business should know about Pinterest" I want to gouge my eyes out. Pinterest is a fine subject to discuss. As are small businesses. As are Things You Should Know. I find myself yearning for depth.

I'm subscribed to several magazines, those that still value a long-form piece of journalism and analysis or two in their rags, anyway. I get the point of the list, that bastard of a journalistic ploy to get you to take five seconds out of your life to read about something interesting. However, when everyone scrambles for five more seconds of your time, and you keep giving them five more seconds, what have you really learned? There are 12 five-second segments in a minute, 720 in an hour and 17,280 in a day. If all you do with that time is scratch and surfaces, is that time well spent? I think not.

bq. To a philosopher all news, as it is called, is gossip, and they who edit and read it are old women over their tea. Yet not a few are greedy after this gossip. There was such a rush, as I hear, the other day at one of the offices to learn the foreign news by the last arrival, that several large squares of plate glass belonging to the establishment were broken by the pressure -- news which I seriously think a ready wit might write a twelve-month, or twelve years, beforehand with sufficient accuracy.

I find it fascinating how in times of panic, after immediate safety needs are met, people want information. During the great San Francisco fire, there were reports of news carts destroyed by people rushing for the news. I think of myself during 9/11 and how I was entirely glued to every media source available. Yet, at its earliest, information that looks truthy can be very falsy and nobody really knows. So there's this massive desire for what is essentially garbage. It's not until we step back and reflect on the bigger picture can we really, truly begin to understand anything. It's like reaching for a candy bar instead of waiting for the apple to grow.

I wonder what Henry would think now.
