---
layout: post
title: Mother's Day and Manny Ramirez
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

_Note: The following is a reproduciton of a piece I wrote for an old blog._

My mother passed away in 2002 of cancer, but that’s not the point of this story.

She was a huge baseball fan, and she’s really the reason I obsess over the game. A fire destroyed my childhood home while I was in college, taking with it most family photos and even her ashes. All I have left are some of her old vinyl records and the box scores of great seasons of baseball etched into history, vivid memories forever encoded as a series of statistical footnotes.

She, like most Minnesotans, was a Twins fan. But she followed the Cubs and Braves pretty religiously, too, because they could always be counted on for a televised day game. She’d watch hundreds of games each season. If it was on television, she watched it, knitting and screaming at the umpires at the same time. She knew the sport.

She loved the game so much, she’s the only person I know who actually religiously followed the season after the player strike canceled the World Series in ‘94. Some say they never lost faith, but they’re mostly liars. I didn’t understand her reasons at the time. I hated baseball so much, I didn’t even like my little league team.

One day she scolded me for reasons I can’t remember. I was young, first or second grade, and devastated. My mom must have felt pretty bad because later that night she gave me a pack of baseball cards and I pulled out a Kirby Puckett card. The card was probably worthless to any collector, but it’s one of the most important memories I have about her. She believed in forgiveness.

I wonder what she would have thought about Manny Ramirez’s recent 50-game suspension from baseball for using performance enhancing drugs. Or my childhood hero Barry Bonds’ fall from grace. Or about Sammy Sosa’s corked bat. (I’m glad she wasn’t alive for that moment, or for the now painfully obvious suspicion that the ‘98 derby was a juiced-up freak show. She loved Sosa for his race to 60+ home runs with Mark McGwire and his subsequent 60+ home run seasons, because it returned fans, still bruised and scarred from the strike, to the seats). Maybe she had her suspicions and just kept them from me, but I doubt it.

In Game 2 of the 1991 World Series, Kent Hrbek, the Twins first baseman lifted the Braves’ Ron Gant off first base and applied a tag. Gant was called out, because Hrbek blocked umpire Drew Coble’s line of sight. Anyone watching from home saw the angle from the third base camera. The cheat was obvious. I’ll never forget the look on my mother’s face.

She didn’t try to defend and explain away Hrbek like many Twins fans did at the time (most have fully recovered and admit it now). A cheat is a cheat. The Twins won the game by one run. They didn’t deserve the win, though.

So when Puckett sent a walk off home run in the 11th inning of Game 6, smile ear to ear and fist pumped high as he circled the bases and when, in Game 7, Jack Morris shut out the Braves in 10 straight innings, I don’t think mom was as happy as she could have been.

That baseball is held to a higher standard than other sports when it comes to steroids shouldn’t come as a surprise. The myth of baseball has always been one of redemption. When the scars heal, they remind us why the game is beautiful. The game is only perfect in our memories. That we wish it to be perfect in reality, too, is what sets this sport apart from all others.

Happy Mother’s Day. 
